Enlightenment BETA 0.13.3 (02/15/98)
This software is copyright (C) 1998 by Carsten Haitzler and Geoff Harrison
All additional work submitted by additional authors is copyright respective
authors.

The authors accept no responsibility for anything this software may or may not
do to your machine, other software on your machine, yourself, your family, your
friends, or anything else.  There is no guarantee placed on the software, it's
stability, its usefulness in operation, or satisfaction of the user after using
the software.

This software is copyrighted under the GPL (GNU Public License).  See the
COPYING file for details.

Welcome to Enlightenment BETA release 0.13.3!  And before all of you ask,
yes, we did in fact say there wouldn't be any more releases before 0.14 came
out.  However, since 0.13 is still the code we run on our desktops,
occasionally we hit a few bugs that would annoy the piss out of us, and fix
them.  Eventually enough little bugfixes stack up to a bugfix release.

This release of enlightenment contains a bunch of annoying bug fixes, too
numerous to list here... but more importantly, this release works with
imlib 1.0!  you will definately want to get a copy of that and install
it, too!

THIS IS THE FINAL FREAKING RELEASE OF 0.13!  I have too much work to do
for 0.14 before Linux Expo comes up in May (It's approaching quickly).
I know, I meant to fix all sorts of other bugs in this release, but trust
me, you would rather hvae me work on 0.14 now.  :)
-- Mandrake


A note to those interested in DR 0.14 of enlightenment:
	No, we haven't forgotten about the next release of enlightenment, folks.
	It's actually coming along quite nicely.  However, I can say that this
	rewrite of code is going to be considerably time consuming.  If you've
	enjoyed what previous sneak peaks you've had into some of the development
	work, just wait until you see what's actually in store for you!  I can say
	only one thing about it: "Expect to be amazed."  I'm still amazed at some
	of the stuff that's going into it, and I'm one of the ones doing it.
	External modules that can plug into enlightenment via an IPC API that is
	currently under way will turn Eplus and Eterm and any other E-enabled
	applications into fully interactive desktop components that can communicate
	with and manipulate the window manager and any components thereof.
	(imagine pushing a button on eplus to add components to the pulldown menus
	of all your Eterms...  Imagine having an animated smoked glass window for
	your tail -f /var/adm/messages that is TRANSLUCENT where you can see 
	through to your various desktop patterns.  Just some of the stuff you can
	look forward to in the future of enlightenment)  Anyways if you are
	interested in seeing the future of enlightenment, feel free to join us this
	year in May (28-30) at the Linux Expo (http://www.linuxexpo.org).

TESTED PLATFORMS:

	This version of enlightenment has been compiled, installed, and run
	under the following UNIX systems with their native compiler:

			Solaris
			Linux
			FreeBSD
			Irix -- with a usleep hack available on the list
			Digital UNIX
			AIX
			NetBSD
			BSD/OS (BSDI)

	If you have another flavor of unix installed on your machine
	and it compiled/installed/ran successfully, please let me know so
	that I may add it to this growing list.  If you have modified your
	distribution in any way to get it to compile or run properly, PLEASE
	send in what you did to make it work so that it might be added into
	the distribution package.

	Also, if you're running Digital UNIX, PLEASE install GNU make.
	DEC's make is very buggy, and doesn't support a lot of features
	that are needed by the Imakefiles.  (Usually their tools are
	fairly decent, but make is just broke, broke, broke)

	As far as X requirements, everything is built for X11R5+.  If
	you can get it to work on an earlier version, send us mail
	on how you did it (we're befuzzled, too).

HOW TO INSTALL:

	Compiling and installing enlightenment on your system is very simple.
	It requires that you possess ImageMagick or NetPBM, imlib, and
	enlightenment itself.  Instructions for imlib are included in the
	imlib distribution (ftp.mandrake.net/pub/imlib).  Once you have
	imlib installed and running, you should edit the Enl.tmpl file
	according to how you wish your system to be set up.  Once have 
	edited the Enl.tmpl file to your satisfaction, simply enter the 
	source directory for enlightenment, and type:

		xmkmf -a

	Once you have done this, a Makefile should be generated that works
	with your system.  (provided you have X and the imake packages
	installed on your system)  Next type:

		make

	This will compile the sources for enlightenment and place an
	executable in the source directory.  At this point you may copy this
	executable to a location suitable for execution, or continue by
	su'ing to the user you wish to install as (typically root) and
	typing the following:
	
		make install

	This should place enlightenment in the location you specified in
	the Enl.tmpl file.  

	If you don't have any themes installed on your system, you will
	want to download and install the DEFAULT themes for the version
	of enlightenment that you have downloaded, as well.  There should
	be an enlightenment themes package in the same directory that you
	downloaded this source distribution from.

	If this is your first time installing enlightenment, you will
	need to modify your .xinitrc file to contain the following line:

		exec /usr/local/enlightenment/bin/enlightenment

	in place of any other window manager startup lines.  This will
	cause enlightenment to launch in lieu of other window managers
	when you use the startx command (enlightenment will be
	launched via xinit)  You may also want to add a PATH exporting
	statement in here, to assure that your X session will have
	a good environment for launching applications.  IE:

		export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/bin

	And that's it!  just start enlightenment by launching startx.

	If you're using xdm, add those lines to a .xsession file instead
	of an .xinitrc file.  (xdm is the graphical login feature
	present on some unix systems)

INTERNET DISTRIBUTION:

	Enlightenment can be found on the web via the following URLS:

		http://www.enlightenment.org

	It can be downloaded via ftp at:
	
		ftp.enlightenment.org/pub/enlightenment

	Mailing list:
	
		See http://www.rasterman.com/mail.html for details

ADDITIONAL CREDITS / SPECIAL THANKS:

	Thanks goes out to everyone who ever sent in patches, bugfixes,
	or sensible bug reports.  Enlightenment wouldn't get this far
	without the help and support of all the users on the net.

	Thanks to Jim Knoble from Redhat for the initial setup / install,
	and patches that made enlightenment a lot easier to install.

	Thanks to Ben Buxton for numerous patches (resize, restart,
	initial mapping, resize / move info, etc)

	Thanks to Michael Kellen, for the introduction of multiple focus
	types (ClickToFocus, SloppyFocus).

	Thanks to Mark Baker for the WINDOW_SHADE action, as well as the
	beginnings of pthread support.

	Thanks to Michael Jennings for throwing in his 2 cents worth
	and also a few useful patches (like multi-itimer conflict fixes)

	Thanks to Allen Wittenauer from a "Well Known Workstation
	Manufacturer"  for a tremendous amount of cross-platform code 
	revisions, as well as the current Imakefile scheme.

	Thanks to Dan Mount for debugging support.  He helped hunt down
	bugs in E on non-XFree86 servers.

	Thanks to Sami Makela, for fixing the iconbox drag bug and also
	a minor bug in windowlists, and a fix that helped repair problems
	when running RealVideo
	
	Thanks to Rob Malda for adding Snapshotpager as well as skipwindow
	and the next/prev actions.

	And lastly thanks to all the folks on #E on EFNet (irc) for
	putting up with all the hassle of listening to mandrake and
	raster grumble online (and also for all sorts of bug testing
	information)

	---If you have sent in patches that are included in the
	distribution but your name isn't here, we may have accidentally
	left your name out - send us mail and it'll go in here.

FINAL WORDS:

	If you have any problems or bugs or just want to say something,
	feel free to drop either one of us an email.  We may not get to
	respond right away, but every bug report counts!

	Enjoy!

	The Rasterman (Carsten Haitzler)
	raster@rasterman.com
	http://www.rasterman.com

	Mandrake (Geoff Harrison)
	mandrake@mandrake.net
	http://mandrake.net

